Device-side ledger documentation (#1425)
spark/docs: src/content/reference/device-os/firmware.md

There is no function to unsubscribe a single event handler. 

### Particle.ledger

{{api name1="Particle.ledger"}}

{{since when="5.8.0"}}

Request a ledger from the cloud. Returns a [`Ledger`](#ledger) object to read or write the data in the ledger. 

This operation is asynchronous and the data will not be available until synchronized with the cloud. You will typically call this from `setup()` and you can do so before connected to the cloud.

> The type of ledger (device-to-cloud or cloud-to-device), as well as the ledger scope (organization, product, or device) is determined when the ledger is created on the cloud side, so it is not specified when you request the ledger. You must first create a ledger in the cloud; you cannot create a new ledger using the device-side API. The first time a device comes online in a product with a device-specific ledger, a new ledger instance will be created automatically for the device, however.

Reviewer: > You must first create a ledger in the cloud; you cannot create a new ledger using the device-side API.

> The first time a device comes online in a product with a device-specific ledger, a new ledger instance will be created automatically for the device, however.

This paragraph is confusing because the docs don't make clear distinction between ledger _definitions_ and _instances_.

Author: Changed to:

The type of ledger (device-to-cloud or cloud-to-device), as well as the ledger scope (organization, product, or device) is determined when the ledger is created on the cloud side, so it is not specified when you request the ledger. You must first create a ledger definition in the cloud; you cannot create a new ledger definition using the device-side API. 

The first time a device comes online specifying a device to cloud ledger, a new ledger instance will be created for the device, however.

In Device OS 3.0.0 and later there are accessors to read the values out of the iBeacon class.

## Ledger

{{api name1="Ledger"}}

{{since when="5.8.0"}}

Ledger provides device to cloud and cloud to device data synchronization. See [Ledger](/getting-started/logic-ledger/ledger/) for an introduction to Ledger. 

You will typically request a ledger using [Particle.ledger()](#particle-ledger) like this:

```cpp
Ledger sensors;

void setup() {
    sensors = Particle.ledger("sensors");
}
```

The `Particle.ledger` function is asynchronous and the data will not be available until the device comes online and has synchronized with the cloud.

The type of ledger (device-to-cloud or cloud-to-device), as well as the ledger scope (organization, product, or device) is determined when the ledger is created on the cloud side, so it is not specified when you request the ledger.

You will typically store the `Ledger` object you receive from `Particle.ledger()` as a global variable so you can access it again later easily.

Ledger names consist only of lowercase alphanumeric and dash, up to 32 characters, and are unique across all scopes.

### set() [Ledger class]

> Sets a value in the ledger. This call is asychronous.

Reviewer: It's worth documenting that, locally, the data gets saved immediately. It's the synchronization with the cloud that happens asynchronously and, potentially, at a later time.

Author: Changed to: The data is saved to local flash storage immediately, but will be synchronized to the cloud at a later time.

// CALLBACK PROTOTYPE
void myCallback(Ledger ledger, void* arg)
```

### onSync(OnSyncFunction) [Ledger class]

Registers a function to be called when the ledger is synchronized. This method takes a std::function which can be a C++ lambda, which can be useful for calling a method implemented in a non-static C++ class.

```cpp
// PROTOTYPE
int onSync(OnSyncFunction callback);

// CALLBACK DEFINITIONS
typedef std::function<void(Ledger)> OnSyncFunction;

// CALLBACK PROTOTYPE
void myCallback(Ledger ledger)

// CALLBACK LAMBDA
myLedger.onSync([](Ledger ledger) {
  // Code to run when synchronization completes goes here
}
```

### remove() [Ledger class]

Remove any data associated with a ledger from the device.

The device must not be connected to the Cloud. The operation will fail if the ledger with the given name is in use.

The data is not guaranteed to be removed in an irrecoverable way.

See also [Ledger::removeAll](#removeall-ledger-class-) to remove all ledger data and includes a code example.

```cpp
// PROTOTYPE
static int remove(const char* name);
```

### removeAll() [Ledger class]

Remove any ledger data from the device.

> The device must not be connected to the Cloud. The operation will fail if the ledger with the given name is in use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The device must not be connected to the Cloud. The operation will fail if any of the ledgers are in use.
```

Author: Updated

The data is not guaranteed to be removed in an irrecoverable way.

```cpp
// PROTOTYPE
static int removeAll();

// EXAMPLE
#include "Particle.h"

SYSTEM_MODE(SEMI_AUTOMATIC);

SYSTEM_THREAD(ENABLED);

SerialLogHandler logHandler(LOG_LEVEL_INFO);

void setup() {
    // Remove any ledger data from the device.    
    // The device must not be connected to the Cloud. The operation will fail if any of the ledgers are in use.
    Ledger::removeAll();

    Particle.connect();
}

void loop() {
}

```

## LedgerData

The `LedgerData` class provides a subset of methods of the `Variant` class that are relevant to map operations. The Ledger class [set()](#set-ledger-class-) and [get()](#get-ledger-class-) take a LedgerData object. 

> Because a `Variant` is transparently converted into `LedgerData` you may never need to create a `LedgerData` object. See [Ledger sensor](/getting-started/logic-ledger/ledger-sensor/) for an example of this technique.

Reviewer: This is not true for a conversion in the opposite direction though. I'm wondering if we should allow `LedgerData` to be transparently converted to a `Variant` as well.

### set() [Variant class]

One common use-case of Variant is setting values in a ledger. In this code, a fake sensor value is stored in `int sensorValue`. In a real application, you'd read an actual sensor there.

Then a `Variant` object is created on the stack that will be filled with data.

The `set()` method is described below in [VariantMap](#set-variantmap-). It takes a key name (such as "sensor" or "time") and a value, which is also a `Variant`. Because there are Variant constructors for many variable types (see [variant constructor](#constructor-variant-class-), below), you can pass a variable directly to set and the compiler will handle it appropriately. In the time example, the returned object from `Time.format` is a `String`.

```cpp
int sensorValue = readSensor();

Variant data;
data.set("sensor", sensorValue);
data.set("time", Time.format(TIME_FORMAT_ISO8601_FULL));
sensors.set(data);
```

See [Ledger sensor](/getting-started/logic-ledger/ledger-sensor/) for the full example.

### Variant::Type

> Variants have an explicit type, unlike JSON. The following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Variants have an explicit type, unlike JSON. The following types are supported:
```

| Constant | C++ Type |
| :--- | :--- |
| Variant::Type::NULL | Null type (`std::monostate`) |
| Variant::Type::BOOL | `bool` |
| Variant::Type::INT | `int` |
| Variant::Type::UINT | `unsigned` |
| Variant::Type::INT64 | `int64_t` |
| Variant::Type::UINT64 | `uint64_t` |
| Variant::Type::DOUBLE | `double` |
| Variant::Type::STRING | `String` |
| Variant::Type::ARRAY | `VariantArray` |
| Variant::Type::MAP | `VariantMap` |

### constructor [Variant class]

{{api name1="Variant::Variant()"}}

You can construct a `Variant` object with a parameter of an explict type to create a variant of that type.

```cpp
// PROTOTYPES
Variant();
Variant(const std::monostate& val);
Variant(bool val);
Variant(int val);
Variant(unsigned val);
Variant(long val);
Variant(unsigned long val);
Variant(long val);
Variant(unsigned long val);
Variant(long long val);
Variant(unsigned long long val);
Variant(double val);
Variant(const char* val);
Variant(String val);
Variant(VariantArray val);
Variant(VariantMap val);'
```

### value() [Variant class]

{{api name1="Variant::value()"}}

> The `value` method is a template that returns a reference to the stored value of the variant. The allowable types are listed in [Variant::Type](#variant-type). This can be done to either get or set a value.

Reviewer: It should be documented that the template type of this method must match the actual underlying type of the variant value, otherwise the behavior is undefined. A safer alternative is to use the `toXXX()` and `asXXX()` methods.

```cpp
// PROTOTYPES
template<typename T>
T& value();

template<typename T>
const T& value() const;

// EXAMPLES
int value1 = variant1.value<int>();
bool value2 = variant2.value<bool>();
String value3 = variant3.value<String>();
```

### type() [Variant class]

{{api name1="Variant::type()"}}

Return the type of the `Variant`. See [Variant::Type](#variant-type) for a list of valid types. There are also [accessors to check for a specific type](#isxxx-variant-class-) such as `isInt()`.

```cpp
// PROTOTYPE
Type type() const;
```

### isXXX() [Variant class]

Returns true if the Variant is of the specified type.

```cpp
// PROTOTYPES
bool isNull() const;
bool isBool() const;
bool isInt() const;
bool isUInt() const;
bool isInt64() const;
bool isUInt64() const;
bool isDouble() const;
bool isNumber() const;
bool isString() const;
bool isArray() const;
bool isMap() const;
```

### toBool() [Variant class]

{{api name1="Variant::toBool()"}}

> Returns value of the variant to an `bool` (boolean, `true` or `false`), converting the type if necessary. The original value is left unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns value of the variant as a `bool` (boolean, `true` or `false`), converting the type if necessary. The original value is left unchanged.
```

| Source | Result | 
| :--- | :--- |
| bool | unchanged |
| numeric | zero (`0`) &rarr; `false`, non-zero &rarr; `true` |

> | String | `false` &rarr; `false`, 'true' &rarr; "true" |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| String | "false" &rarr; `false`, "true" &rarr; `true` |
```

| other | conversion fails |

There are two overloads, one that takes an `ok` parameter passed by reference, which is filled in as 
`true` if the data is already this type or can be converted.

```cpp
// PROTOTYPES
bool toBool() const;
bool toBool(bool& ok) const;
```

### asBool() [Variant class]

{{api name1="Variant::asBool()"}}

Returns a reference to the value contained in this variant as a `bool`. This can be used to modify the value of the variant.

```cpp
// PROTOTYPE
bool& asBool();
```

> This method will convert the type of the variant to bool if necessary, see [toBool](#tobool-variant-class-) for more information. If the conversion is not possible, the method will assert.

Reviewer: It's not clear what's the difference between `value<bool>()`, `asBool()` and `toBool()`. Perhaps it's worth adding a section about that so that we don't have to document it for each of these methods separately.

- `value<T>()` – returns a reference to the currently held value. Requires it be of the type `T` otherwise would cause undefined behavior.
- `as<T>()` or `asXXX()` – converts the underlying value of the variant to `T` _in place_, modifying the variant, and returns a reference to it. Safe to call if the types don't match but requires `T` to be one of the supported types, otherwise would cause a compilation error (not a runtime assert as currently documented).
- `to<T>()` or `toXXX()` – converts the underlying value to `T` without modifying the variant and returns the result _by value_. Safe to call if the types don't match, `T` can be arbitrary.

Author: Added a new section with this explanation, and linked to it from all of the methods.

If the value of the `double` it within the bounds of a `float` you can static cast from `double` to `float`. A `float` (single precision, 4-byte or 32-bit) will be promoted to a `double` automatically if necessary.

There are two overloads, one that takes an `ok` parameter passed by reference, which is filled in as 
`true` if the data is already this type or can be converted.

```cpp
// PROTOTYPES
double toDouble() const;
double toDouble(bool& ok) const;
```

### asDouble() [Variant class]

{{api name1="Variant::asDouble()"}}

Returns a reference to the value contained in this variant as an `double`. This can be used to modify the value of the variant.

```cpp
// PROTOTYPE
double& asDouble();
```

This method will convert the type of the variant to `double` if necessary, see [toDouble](#todouble-variant-class-) for more information. If the conversion is not possible, the method will assert.

### toString() [Variant class]

{{api name1="Variant::toString()"}}

Returns the value of the variant to an `String` (an ASCII or UTF-8 string) and returns a copy of it, converting the type if necessary. The original value is left unchanged.

| Source | Result | 
| :--- | :--- |

> | bool | false &rarr; "0", true &rarr; "1" |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| bool | false &rarr; "false", true &rarr; "true" |
```

Author: Fixed

`true` if the data is already this type.

```cpp
// PROTOTYPES
VariantMap toMap(bool& ok) const;
```

### asMap() [Variant class]

{{api name1="Variant::asMap()"}}

Returns a reference to the value contained in this variant as an `VariantMap`. This can be used to modify the value of the variant and to more efficiently read the map without having to copy it.

```cpp
// PROTOTYPE
VariantMap& asMap();
```

This method will not convert the type of variant. If the Variant is not already a `VariantMap` then this method will assert.

### toJSON [Variant class]

{{api name1="Variant::toJSON()"}}

Serializes a VariantArray or VariantMap as JSON and returns it in a `String` object.

```cpp
// PROTOTYPE
String toJSON() const;
```

### fromJSON [Variant class]

{{api name1="Variant::fromJSON()"}}

Given a JSON object as a c-string or `JSONValue`, returns a `Variant` object.

```cpp
// PROTOTYPE
static Variant fromJSON(const char* json);
static Variant fromJSON(const JSONValue& val);

// EXAMPLE
const char *jsonStr = "{\"a\":123}";
Variant data = Variant::fromJson(jsonStr);
```

## VariantArray

{{api name1="VariantArray"}}

> The `VariantArray` is a [Vector](#vector), essentially a dynamically-sized array of Variants, which are containers for arbitrary data. Think of this as a container to hold arbitrary data in Variant objects before converting to a JSON or CBOR array before sending across the network.

Reviewer: > or CBOR array before sending across the network

I'd probably remove all mentions of CBOR from the docs for simplicity.

Author: Done

```
// DEFINITION
typedef Vector<Variant> VariantArray;
```

> The methods below are implemented in the `Variant` class, so you can use them update a `Variant` that is of type `VariantArray`.

Reviewer: > you can use them update a `Variant` that is of type `VariantArray`

The array methods defined in `Variant` will convert the variant to an array so it's not required for the variant to be an array prior to the operation. The map methods will convert the variant to a map.

Author: Fixed

```
// DEFINITION
typedef Map<String, Variant> VariantMap;
```

The methods below are implemented in the `Variant` class, so you can use them update a `Variant` that is of type `VariantMap`.

### set() [VariantMap]

{{api name1="Variant::set(key, value)"}}

Add or update an element with key `key` in the map, setting the value to `value`. This method is implemented in `Variant`.

```cpp
// PROTOTYPES
bool set(const char* key, Variant val);
bool set(const String& key, Variant val);
```

If the stored value of this `Variant` is not a map, it is converted to a map in place prior to the operation.

### remove() [VariantMap]

{{api name1="Variant::remove(key)"}}

Remove an key `key` in the map. Returns true if this variant is a map and the key exists, otherwise returns false. This method is implemented in `Variant`.

```cpp
// PROTOTYPES
bool remove(const char* key);
bool remove(const String& key);
```

### get() [VariantMap]

{{api name1="Variant::get(key)"}}

Get the value of an element in the map. This method is implemented in `Variant`.

This method copies the value, which is inefficient for complex variant values. operator[] can be used

> to get a reference to the value instead of copying it.

Reviewer: Let's add a similar note for `at()` that returns the element of the array by value.

Author: Fixed
